I don't believe that this is being kept
secret from us simply to protect methods
I think it's being kept secret from us
for deeper
[Music]
reasons the intelligence Community is
treating us like children it's time for
us to know the truth about this I think
that we can handle
[Music]
it boys quick photo
we are at Rayburn house office building
where the oversight Committee hearing is
going to happen the last one happened
July 26th 2023 they have let in 15
people from the
public some big big changes in public
perception and even public interest the
topic seems to be a lot more in the zge
it seems to be people just have a
general interest into into the topic and
just I think in the in the Paranormal in
general so yeah let's get let get this
thing out there man you are just taking
photos on your iPhone it's incredible so
I'm just going to Tweet it or whatever
we call it now Immaculate consolation
report on the US government secret UAP
UFO program from wh released to youd say
um discussed by Congress in today's
hearing full report here and then yeah
okay yeah yeah um give it an RT right
now yeah let's roll wh Say by okay done
done
just you better get that first retweet
feels like the main impetus is we all
need to read Michael just tweeted the
immaculate constellation report that was
you happy great thank you than you
sir yeah I love coming in hot he comes
in hot every time and we punish them by
giving them multi-million dollars more
than they ask for every year
13th times yeah unbelievable what are
the other times uh I've done energy the
environment um climate change
censorship maybe you'll be in this chair
one day oh God
M be bored to tears how did you get into
this topic to begin
with it's a great question I mean the
first piece I did was on maybe the
craziest of all the cases which is the
famous Brazil crft in Virginia and I did
it in part because I lived in Brazil I
speak
Portuguese I thought the movie was
incredibly interesting and I ended up
doing some original reporting to verify
some of the claims that James Fox was
making I interviewed someone that
actually had seen the photographs of the
alleged creature and I did a two-page
spread for New York Post and then the
subject kind of went to sleep for me and
then I only came back to it after David
gush's testimony and I just wanted to
poke around and see if I could verify
some of the claims and I've done about I
guess four or five stories since then
and we've both gotten to know David
grush for the last couple of years and
he's also a big for me source of
confidence because you can kind of feel
the earnest I mean he has mild autism
you know attention to detail and focus
on truth and then you also he'll say a
thing and it just gets corroborated
continually in sort of your open source
findings have you found that as well
yeah I mean there's certainly this is so
this is an issue that I would never use
even just two sources for I feel like
when you're in something that is so um
On The Fringe you know genuinely on the
edge of you know of what we understand
that you need multiple sources and that
you have to really check them out and so
I've been pretty cautious you know in my
reporting I also you know am careful to
be like this is what people are saying
this is what people in these positions
to to to know are saying I remain
agnostic about the essential nature of
the phenomena I don't know what it is
you know I think that the other
motivation was that this came during a
period of time when we were reporting on
other governmental abuses of power the
most famous one was censorship but we've
now done stories on entrapment by FBI
we've done stories on disinformation
operations and so I find myself getting
certainly fascinated by the phenomenon
like everybody else but I think that my
motivation has been like this is bad
that the government is behaving in these
ways and that we need and that really
that's sort of that if you're kind of
list top functions of Journalism kind of
at the top of it would be governmental
abuses of power how do we make progress
on the nature of the phenomena itself
because I thought you did a great job of
Towing that line and maintaining kind of
epistemic humility around what this
thing is right how do we get closer on
that I mean it seems like we're getting
closer you know there's a read by the
way the report that Michael just tweeted
because maybe that'll get you a little
bit closer it goes in a lot of detail
yeah I mean it seems like there's people
are gaining courage so you know
certainly cowardice is courageous but so
too is courage and so you start to see
the whistleblowers becoming more
comfortable we've had whistleblowers who
are Anonymous that are that were now on
a different issue wanting to attach
their names to it I think you're seeing
more people come forward as I always
stress I could never encourage
whistleblowers to go get information
because I can't encourage anybody to you
know break the law however if people
have information I will promise to
protect them and and that's ultimately
why you know someone came to me with the
immaculate constellation stories they
just felt like they had seen me getting
grilled in front of Congress before
about revealing my sources and I think
they trusted that I wouldn't uh betray
them well hopefully you get a deluge of
interesting stories after this because I
think you're you're doing amazing work
with public and thank you you did a
great job protecting your Source in this
case you were questioned pretty
intensely do you know those sources I do
are they within the Department of
Defense I can't say you can't say or you
won't say I won't say say okay why not
because I protect my sources and I think
the but you're not naming them it's a
big department but many of us on my side
of I would say it's far too big
so you're talking about the Department
of Defense sources from within the
Department of Defense I'm I'm un I'm not
willing to uh reduce the potential
Universe of my where my sources might
be I will say that after I published I
was told that this program
that the usap was actually um managed by
the Department of Defense but held at
the White House Roger that's a single
source and I I don't have multiple
sources to verify that thank you sir I
did my best to trick an answer out of
you but was partially successful Madam
chair are you yeah who was that the
congressman Congressman Higgins
Congressman Higgins was like I tried to
trick you yeah yeah it's hard I mean you
have to remember not to reveal their
anything about them their gender their
agency I try to keep the universe pretty
big but also want to sort of say they're
in a position to know you can't be so
vague that people don't trust it yep but
I ultimately think that the report
itself which came out now it's been I
guess probably about a month since my
article or maybe a month and a week and
I think that the facts will speak for
themselves I didn't have I didn't I'm
not going to say I verified every single
part of it perfectly but I did spend
some time looking around just to make
sure it didn't look like this was
compiled from existing lore or existing
cases the accusation of course with the
UAP issue is that this is a case of
circular reporting y circular reporting
is a real problem I mean it's a you you
want to avoid you know somebody told
somebody something and then you thinking
that you're getting something from two
sources but it's actually just from one
so there's ways to to prevent that but I
uh it seems like pretty new information
and certainly the Revelation that there
exists a very large strategic
intelligence project to evaluate this
information in a way that you would
expect someone to evaluate it with a lot
of still images video images human
reports combining them you can see
there's a very interesting section where
the source goes through the different
kinds of uaps and the different
psychological effects biological effects
I think that's a really fascinating part
of the report it's so fascinating it's
almost like this total information
awareness where you have signals
intelligence you have human intelligence
you have these databases that we don't
have access to and presumably this is
this is I think a really important thing
when it comes to the topic is people ask
you know where is this program housed is
it in NASA is it in the dod is it in the
doe the truth is right it's sort of all
factions of all of those things it
touches on all those things and the
Departments themselves in many cases
don't have proper oversight over these
kind of factions it's kind of this cargo
cult of what was set up from the ' 50s
that's right yeah I mean the the this my
original my sources said that it was a
DOD program after I published a source
said that it was it's a it's a usap uh
unacknowledged special Access program
controlled by the White House but
administered by the dod I think there's
there's definitely playing they're
playing somebody's playing some games
here to keep this stuff hard to track or
or easier to deny for example so but I
think like you know for the bottom line
for the public and for members of
Congress is that behind the scenes the
Pentagon and the intelligence Community
doesn't just have a bunch of blurry
fuzzy videos I reported um and this is
from a single Source but I I I reported
it pretty carefully a report of a very
highquality video shot from a
helicopter of an orb coming out of the
ocean about 20 miles off the coast of
Kuwait being joined by another orb and
it you know high definition full color
you know and I also point out that it
was shot in a helicopter on you know I'm
assuming high quality cameras but this
is not some you know the one of the
concerns around maybe why they they
don't release this information they
don't want to reveal how the military
collects this information well I think
everybody knows that we have helicopters
and highdef cameras so that can't be one
of the reasons and I think even in the
other some of the other Technologies you
can also you know you can you can redact
it you can hide stuff you can blur stuff
you know I I I think it's
I don't believe that this is being kept
secret from us simply to protect methods
I think it's being kept secret from us
for deeper reasons and some of them may
just be ego Legacy uh you know
psychology politics there may be some
criminality there may be some ethics I
don't I don't buy at all the excuse that
if that they're they're they're highing
all this stuff just because they don't
want to reveal how we capture this
information Lou alzando uh famous
amazing whistleblower when it comes to
this topic who was involved in atip and
ASAP he was asked if he was read into
Immaculate constellation he had a very
interesting answer he said I can neither
confirm nor deny what do you make of
that yeah I mean the the those kinds of
statements are always curious because
you would think that if it were not true
you could just deny it um at the same
time I think that if you you know if
people read the denial as revealing some
information then
um then I could see why it would do that
but yeah I mean I think it's a very
interesting moment there's always been
speculation that alzando had more direct
involvement in Crash retrieval and
reverse engineering programs um and but
again it's another case of why he needs
we need to have the proper protection so
that he can reveal what he knows how do
we get that because we had the gager
amendment but it doesn't seem like we've
had this you know what we you would
expect the floodgates to open after that
right right A lot of these people would
come out how do we get the proper
protections because that seems just so
key and essential I remember you know we
spoke and you know didn't say anything
about the source but you did say he was
very scared and so that seems to be like
these people can't be extremely afraid
of reprisals right they have to be able
to come out and be in public not just on
public right yeah exactly I think I mean
there's a a friend of mine who's a a
journalist who covers this very
skeptically say you know if there really
was this proof and you really had people
that were close to it and they wanted to
come out they would just do so without
concern for reprisals and I understand
what he means in the sense that you know
if you had you know photographs and film
of alien bodies or craft or whatever um
you could potentially get into a hearing
like this and release it and you would
have the public protection not to
release it I think that most of the
cases that I've seen of the
whistleblowers is that they they don't
have that
they have a lot of the photographic
evidence and certainly there could be
reprisals including criminal
prosecutions I mean you know I think
progressives in particular forget that
Barack Obama you know uh prosecuted more
you know government leakers
whistleblowers than any president I
think than all presidents combined
before that so the federal government
has certainly shown itself willing to
prosecute and persecute and retaliate
against whistleblowers there are
protections but there obviously
inadequate because we're not able to get
that so I mean I think it's look we've
got we've got a president elect who
whatever else you think of him has
committed to a much greater set of
transparency around everything from the
JFK files to the Epstein to the uaps to
co Origins to all sorts of government
secrecy it's accumulated over the last
50 years we had our last big
intelligence comme reform in 1975 with
the church committee
hearings I think it's pretty clear that
we need something like that again and
that it it it needs to be and should be
bipartisan I don't see any reason why it
should become an ideological issue and
you saw it I mean I think this issue is
a beautiful issue to work on because it
is so bipartisan and it's wonderful to
see Democrats and Republicans both
asking for the same thing you're
touching on possible Trump disclosure
where you know could be broad disclosure
we could have reforms in all these
different areas is there the existence
of an alternative history where UFOs
play a central role in a lot of pivotal
events when it comes to American history
you hear rumors about JFK rfks and
consideration for various posts in the
Trump
Administration do you think things come
out of that nature where it turns out
you know you have the Howard hunt for
example former CIA operative who claimed
to be involved you know in some of the
JFK stuff saying you know he was killed
over over UFOs uh he said that to his
son do you think any of that might kind
of become transparent I mean it's hard
to it's hard to I me you would think
that the stuff that they're continuing
to hide would have to be pretty bad MH
for them not to release it you know Mike
Pompeo was asked about the JFK file said
that there were people who were still
alive who would be affected by it so
like it must have been pretty bad if
that was the case you know obviously
there's tons of you know rumors that and
suspicions that the US government was
involved in some way in JFK's
assassination I personally I don't know
but I find it extremely suspicious that
they won't release the full JFK files uh
there's even uh some theories that it
might have even involved UAP you know so
Pompeo when he was interviewed by judge
NPO aano very awkward kind of segue from
you know was like are you going to
release the JFK files he goes no you
know we can't do that some of the people
are still alive and then he goes uh you
know I've seen the the UAP files as well
or something and so that I found very
curious as well yeah these don't hold
the dark secrets that everybody wants to
just hold up as the bogeyman I saw the
UFO files too uh we've got bigger
problems yeah that that he sort of that
he thought they were sort of connected
some sort of inflation yeah yeah um it's
hard to know but it's uh it is it is
suspicious and look I think it's I think
the thing you always have to remember is
that you know for people that say
there's absolutely nothing there and it
was just one guy that killed JFK great
well then release the files like you
know there's you know there's uaps or
nothing it's just it's great so then
then why not the transparency I mean
that's the ultimate problem for the the
the Skeptics you if you're a skeptic you
should be the greatest advocate of
transparency and disclosure because it
would make it would make all of your
enemies look like fools and yet it's
kind of suspicious that we don't see
that it's almost like what we're hearing
is there's nothing there and therefore
the government shouldn't release the
files uh not exactly a consistent
position to hold you mentioned John
Greenwald in your testimony who runs
blackf va.com he's constantly using the
Freedom of Information Act to retrieve
all sorts of you know formerly sensitive
documents in the government he's doing a
great job with that and I think he toes
the line because certain people he's
sort of skeptical of in UFO
whistleblower world but he's also it's
very clear that he's just been
stonewalled in all these cases like he
tried to Foya um uh uh fast Walkers and
NORAD said this is you know actually
just very sensitive material right and
that was actually mentioned fast Walkers
was mentioned in the Wikileaks email
between an aerospace contractor named
Bob Fish and John podesta podesta is
mentioning fast fast Walkers as these
vehicles moving through our outer layer
of defense the defense support network
running by the Air Force so right
fascinating stuff well I think Greenwald
is underappreciated and in part because
I think he's a little bit like neither
fish nor foul he doesn't he's not
someone that
endorses the nhi hypothesis at the same
time he says it is a possibility for me
I want I thought that um his work needed
to be highlighted a little bit here
because he has established that the
secrecy has been growing not not
declining there's a there's a part
there's one story in the UAP community
that sort of says that we are in the
midst of disclosure he says no that's
not the case at all that we're actually
having less disclosure than we have in
the past I think that is important
because I think it undermines the idea
that this is all I mean either hopeful
or not hopeful but it undermines the
idea that we're sort of on our way I
think that um Greenwald is also
important for pointing out the
inconsistencies in the the claims made
by the Pentagon and the military as I
have there's a great quote from him
which is they'll say one thing on Monday
and they say something else on Friday so
you know on the issue of the videos
there's some complexity to it but
basically after some of these videos
were released uh the Pentagon said yeah
there's no more videos just those three
videos and then he was like well you
know really and then a different branch
then said well there's other videos but
we're not going to release them so he
also has established that there's other
videos that they won't release for
National Security Reon
the final thing was important about
Greenwald is he noticed that they are
justifying secrecy under a law
enforcement provision rather than just
National Security and that is very
suspicious because if it's true then we
should know what the law enforcement
investigations are at least the members
of Congress should um but if it's
possible that they're also just abusing
that then we're just seeing I mean I
held up you know at one moment the
redactions because it's just so absurd
that they're redacting how long they've
been collecting reports how many reports
they have and what uaps could be as
though like there's not already a lot of
speculation about what uaps could be
it's really as though they don't want to
admit for some reason that they are
considering the more freaky hypotheses
yes because they don't want to give it
legitimacy but that's just not how it
works like people become people don't
become less suspicious when there's
censorship they become more suspicious
so if you don't want conspiracy you know
theorizing then you should release more
information Congressman Eric Bur
speaking of you know people
conspiring uh he was looking into the
issue of biologics he also said who can
I talk to when it comes to The
Gatekeepers of this program Chris sharp
just wrote an amazing article at The
Liberation times about the whole history
of UFO crash retrieval programs and he
said that uh guy at the CIA Glenn
Gaffney was the gatekeeper for this
program and he actually blocked the
transfer of this craft that locky had
collected in the 50s and was trying to
transfer to ASAP to Big low Aerospace to
study yeah do you think that any of this
is true does it comport with any of the
conversations you've had with some of
your sources it's I I I can't I don't I
can't I haven't verified it but I mean
it doesn't it sounds completely
reasonable I mean these reports of Crash
retrievals and reverse engineering are
decades old it's not new I mean there's
a guy named string Feld who did a huge
uh you know number of Investigations
into it when you really get into the
crash stuff you you also get these
really conflicting accounts makes it
like a Hall of Mirrors and you get them
from people that are really credible
saying really different things this is
really dramatic on Roswell there's a lot
of interviews that have been done so
it's a tricky one I I I very rarely find
people I these Witnesses I really I
don't think that the any of them are
very many of them I should say are
deliberately trying to hoax anybody
which just makes the phenomenon more and
more fascinating like I mean one of the
things around the Roswell um the alleged
Roswell crash is that it was was it one
UFO or two UFOs and taken down by radar
but how could it possibly be taken down
by primitive radar it's an advanced
craft I mean the whole thing is
mysterious I mean the thing that
everybody raises is if you've got
Advanced craft how are they possibly
crashing so much um other people say
well that's you know no it makes sense
and you know if we had ships going into
other planets they could crash but yeah
it's just um or it's a donation I know
donation
and yeah yeah for sure yeah I mean after
a while I mean I think part of my
interest in the in the secrecy stuff is
like the I just I sort of go you can
spend so much time on the speculation at
the end of the day it's like just give
us the freaking files just let us in and
show it to us and and even if you don't
know it or understand it or it's not
pleasant just I think maybe that's part
of our own evolution is that we're I
mean look at I for I mean you look back
now and you go like that's weird that
anybody was was upset that the they
discovered that the sun was revolving
around the earth like why would that
bother you and maybe that's how we'll
look back on this it's like why was
anybody upset that you know there was
some you know something else going on
than what we thought do you have any
sense of what these biologics might
be no I mean I don't I mean that's also
another you know mystery is um you know
I mean you had this really strong
testimony last year from grush um you
know I think that
I thought elzando basically supported
today AB there's a fair number of people
that do that and you know and there's a
way in which I kind of go I mean I think
chair chairwoman mace was like you know
like we got to this you know we have to
you know show some movement here I mean
I kind of go I'm not sure how much you
know society and the Congress can do
it's really up to the executive branch I
mean I I I worry like if if Trump
doesn't do it then I don't know what the
mechanism to get it done is um
so you know um you know I think I'm glad
to see some advocacy organizations on
this you know one possibility is just
that there needs to be I mean I looked
at it and I thought maybe we need a much
broader movement not just on UAP
transparency but also on all forms of
government transparency I mean the
church committee wasn't just on CIA was
also on FBI B power so 50 years ago so
50 years ago I mean it's definitely you
know overdue I mean I I sort of felt the
same way about whistleblower protections
like there's a you know birit has a
piece of legislation for UAP
whistleblower protections obviously I
support that but it's like FBI needs
whistle blower protections for you know
when they expose entament which they do
quite a bit and CIA needs it so it does
it does feel like something has shifted
seismically but uh yeah I mean I think
if it doesn't happen the next couple
years I would start to be very
pessimistic my optimism would shift into
pessimism if it doesn't happen the next
couple years well you a huge part in
Breaking the Twitter files this idea
that there's kind of this revolving door
bureaucracy between three-letter
agencies and places like Twitter that
are just involved in were involved pre
Elon purchase in systematic censorship
of users Shadow banning all sorts of
things like that does something like
that happen with the Trump
Administration can can we get you in
there and can you be the official you
know disseminator of some of this stuff
or I mean obviously as a competitive
journalist like I would love to be able
to get in there get those files you know
the truth is they should be released to
everybody and I'll cover them with
everybody else I do think you know I
think it's uh you know I think it's
salutary I mean I one of the lessons for
me from the Twitter files is that it is
possible to keep conspiracies secret and
that I think there's this is a funny
issue because people say well if there
were really you know if the government
were really covering up there' be
whistleblowers and then you get the
whistleblowers and people will go well
how come the whistleblowers don't have
more evidence it's you know I mean
they're all counter Intel all of them
are yeah
exactly exactly so you know I think what
we saw with the Twitter files
particularly I covered the FBI and CIA
information operation on Hunter B's
laptop that was kept perfectly secret
you know until the Twitter files showed
that it involved Aspen Institute you
know no one knew then it involved the
the media was being kind of programmed
or you know pre-buy with brainwashing
beforehand nobody talked about that and
so these operations I I don't have I
have no I do not have a hard time
believing that US Government C
of carrying out and keeping secret cover
operations and you brought up a couple
of very interesting names on Joe Rogan
that were involved in suppressing the
hunter Biden laptop story that are also
involved in the UFO story yes care to
talk about that well I mean one of the I
mean the big name is is a gentleman
named Garrett graph he's uh he was
involved in in you know pre-b punking
the hunter B and laptop in the summer of
2020 with the Aspen Institute along with
his supervisor Vivian Schiller Who was
the the head of NPR the head of media at
Twitter New York Times executive um
credible career as a high level media
executive now they're at
Aspen and Garett graph comes out with a
book on UFOs earlier this year called
UFO and it's basically just a debunking
of all these cases you know I mean I
haven't gone through it I mean you
really need to go through each and every
one of them but one of the things you
discover is when you get into some of
these alleged debunkings is that they
haven't actually debunked it they'll
often come up up with something well I
think one really Salient one is there's
there's been this argument between U
Mark Von um I my but's last name reman
remens dorf remen dorf yeah is it yeah I
think
so sorry Mark Mark awesome yeah Mark has
been having this argument around the
gimbal UFO video with a a gentleman
named Mick W yes I think Mari
has has kind of won the argument that
it's not lens glare or some sort of
optical illution it's really and I think
X formula Twitter has been important to
being able to do that kind of to be able
to see you can kind of like you don't
have to follow the whole thing but you
kind of see that Mick West runs out of
responses and markets very persistent so
I mean each of these cases you know the
first thing you do people do I mean they
do this with 100 bu laptop they go oh no
no it's been debunked or they did it
with Co Origins that's been debunked and
you know 90 95% of journalists and
others go oh it's been debunked I'm
going to move on they don't even look at
it to kind ofit wait a second it really
wasn't debunk you just you you just said
some words yes you know and you didn't
actually prove it I think there's a lot
of that going on when it comes to uaps
and it just requires you know it's part
of the problem with the issue being
marginalized but you would normally have
academics or others that had budgets and
they were staff time and phds and
whatever's in pure review journals that
would kind of go through this in some
way I mean it's not to say that
peer-review journals don't have a lot of
misinformation or corrected information
but You' at least have that sort of
debate but as it is now it's sort of
left to to um nonprofessionals I mean
there's really everybody's
nonprofessional but yeah I found it I
guess the bottom line is isn't that a
funny coincidence the guy that was
involved in a hunter B disinformation
operation is it was also involved in a
UAP information operation whether it's
all disinformation I haven't evaluated
but I find him a suspicious character no
and that book makes UFOs out to be some
like novel curiosity that you know if
you're a member of the real intelligen
you should laugh at or whatever it's
like not serious it's a little bit more
subtle in a sense that I mean with you
have these kind of gradations of
debunkers you have this gentleman named
stepen Green Street of the New York Post
who's just and with Sean Kirkpatrick who
are just dismissive and ridiculing just
oldfashioned UFO ridiculing angry this
is terrible we shouldn't even be talking
about this you have slightly more
sophisticated with Mick West and then
you have Garrett graph which is a bit
more sophisticated I mean he does
acknowledge that there are uaps and
there are things that we can't explain I
think he even does the orbs you know the
orbs are kind of the UFO of the moment
you know like if in the 70s it was discs
or 50s and 60s it was like disc orbs
seem to be you know getting a lot of
attention and so they kind of
acknowledges that they exist but then
says I mean one of the things he says
that I think is
very um disingenuous is he says that the
military and the intelligence community
and the government just doesn't know
what they are
I mean I don't think he knows that like
I don't think he I mean how could I mean
if he does know that that's another
issue problem because the members of
Congress don't know that we don't know
that the only established position is
agnosticism one of the themes that keeps
recurring with these hearings when it
comes to UFOs is the inability to get
firsthand sources of information in a
skiff yes you had the unique ability to
speak to somebody in a you know some
compartmentalized setting how how can we
uh allow them to speak to a firsthand
witness is is that possible well my
understanding is that that members of
Congress and their staffers have spoken
to Witnesses um I I don't know the exact
status of it but um you know they don't
have the authorization or they they
don't have the permission to declassify
you know it's just um I mean obviously
members of Congress are are frustrated
about that um I mean it's the same
problem with the documents and with the
rest of it they're just clearly not
being given the authorization to to de
classify or make these things public
yet where do you think we go from here
what do you think what what what comes
next in this in this topic do you think
we make progress or yeah I mean I I
think that the there's been a huge
emphasis understandably from the UAP
movement to C there ISM movement to try
to persuade people that uaps are real
and then I think another part of it to
persuade people that they're
nhi I think that the right focus is to
persuade people is to persuade the
public and the government to have
transparency and disclosure and I think
it helps to sort of at least for people
that are genuinely agnostic to
acknowledge that we're agnostic I think
that it's um you know I think it
actually makes the case stronger when
you point out that you know look if it's
some peculiar form of mass psychosis or
social contagion or Chinese balloons or
whatever it is we still need the
disclosure and the transparency yes I
think it I think you inspire a little
bit more trust from the public on that
issue and I think focuses on the
government secrecy rather than on the
nature of uaps I think there's a
separate sort of cultural uh movement
phenomena that really is exploring what
uaps are it involves taking really
detailed cases and testimony and that's
all to the good and of course that's
great um but I do think at at a kind of
policy and political level this sharp
focus at going after the government
secrecy the coverups the disinformation
is absolutely essential I think it's a
chance to go from strength to strength I
mean here you've got like I one of the
only bipartisan nonpartisan movements I
see you saw every single member of
Congress today on the committee both
sides recognizing that there's something
real there I've this is the 13th time
I've testified before
Congress it's actually heartwarming like
literally heartwarming because it's so
awkward when you testify normally and
the Republicans and Democrats are just
attacking each other in the nastiest
ways it's like shocking to see them
being Kumbaya one love up there uh gives
me a lot of Hope for this movement and
it's actually part of what inspires me
to want to work on it it's nice to work
on something that actually brings people
together it's also a reminder because
there's so much
hostility you know in other parts of the
society whether it's in the media or
from the debunkers on social media or
from friends and family I don't like it
it's nice to see that when you have a
group of lawmakers that have actually
dug into this that they're actually
they're clear there's something real
here and that this is not um it's
clearly no longer a French thing there
was no uncomfortable giggling there's no
uncomfortable able ridiculing there was
no character assassination and I mean so
I kind of go strength to strength this
could be one of the most important
social movements of the 21st century
you're a traditional nuts and bolts
journalist who's done amazing job on all
sorts of things you talk about the
decline of San Francisco you talk about
nuclear energy you talk about big Tech
overreach with this issue it's very
interesting because you can try to
maintain some sort of impartiality but
if you say that they're probably is some
sort of non-human intelligence then I
think it's tough to say that it's a
bridge too far that maybe they're
actually somewhat involved in the
disclosure process you get into
biologics somebody you know a
congresswoman asked about um hybrids
there are rumors that have come up to
the hill um of a secretive project
within the Department of Defense
involving uh the manipulation of human
genetics with what is described as
non-human genetic material potentially
for for the enhancement of human
capabilities hybrids are any of you
familiar with that yes or no so how do
you deal with that how do you draw the
line and in the world where there is
non-human intelligence do you think that
they are sort of you know involved in
the process of disclosure yeah well
that's very interesting I don't know um
I mean jacqu valet who I think we you
know you and I talk about a lot we both
respect him I mean I've read a lot of
his books maybe most of them or all of
them
he believes there are
nhi he also thinks that there is three
levels of deceptions one is from the
government the second is by the people
that have the experiences and he doesn't
mean it as a criticism he just thinks
people don't completely uh often
represent exactly what happened often
leaving out the the freakier high
weirdness elements of it high
strangeness parts of it and then there's
he says the nhi themselves are being
deceptive it's a very interesting
argument because you know there's these
really funny cases like for example
there's this great case in France where
a you know a very trusted respected
farmer discovers a a spaceship on his
land and then he goes up to it and then
there's supposedly an nhi there holding
a tray full of of soil samples and other
vegetables and he was like oh I didn't
see you there and I was just coming by
with this it seems absurd like if you
have some Advanced civilization like why
would they be caught off guard by a
farmer with soil samples um it almost
feels as though something's I think he
would sort of say it is creating I think
he kind of describes as like a control
mechanism that's sort of creating a
particular perception something that
wants us to think that these are
extraterrestrials and that they're under
investigating who we are and expressing
concern about nuclear weapons in the
environment I always point out that you
didn't need any non-human intelligence
to point out that nuclear weapons were
very scary or that we need to protect
the environment we didn't need anybody
to tell us that we knew that uh starting
you know right away after World War II
so that's a very interesting hypothesis
I mean I think um it's hard I mean I
know for a a close colleague of mine who
is uncomfortable with the subject
doesn't like it that it's certainly I'm
in a stronger place with that person to
talk about the need for disclosure and
government openness and whatnot it's
also the case that a lot of people that
are involved in this um the journalists
the people reporting it they're involved
in a lot of uh of anomalous phenomena
they're you know there's Skywalker you
know Skinwalker Ranch is a very freaky
and there's a lot of freaky stories that
comes out of it it's used by the
debunkers to sort of discredit you know
the broader sense of it Part of Me Goes
you know um think we should be a little
softer with each other a little bit more
tolerant of each other there's so much
mystery I uh have came back to my faith
about six years ago um yeah and it's uh
I'm a Christian and I believe in God and
I think we have souls and I think
there's some part of us that's Immortal
and and it's a faith like I didn't come
to it because you know I discovered some
secret thing and and I'm open about that
and that's my faith and um I think it's
natural that people that that that have
a have a faith or that that that believe
in that see paranormal things would be
more attracted to this I don't think it
means that there's nothing there and
there's also people that are genuine
atheists that are also interested in the
phenomenon so you know I I kind of go I
I I think it needs to be okay for people
to ask the the seemingly ridiculous
question and um to have those
conversations and allow them uh they
shouldn't be censored they shouldn't be
stigmatized or demonized they shouldn't
be used to attack people's credibility I
think it is good to always you know as a
journalist or as a as you know an
attorney or whoever some an investigator
it's always good to say here's what we
can prove and here's the evidence here's
what we suspect but can't prove yes and
here's some various possibilities we get
into a lot of trouble when people start
to confuse their own theories with the
things that they know so that's a
completely legitimate thing to be
policing but allowing some amount of
conversation and speculation imagination
and you know and spirituality I think
people I think humans need yes uh a
sense a Transcendent moral purpose a a
sense of transcendence I think that when
people think they don't need that they
end up creating they end often turning
their politics into a religion and
that's taking them to some dangerous
places so much better to be I think uh
you know transparent about what it is
that we're talking about and you know
like if you were asking me for proof of
God I wouldn't be able to provide it for
you but if you're if you're going to ask
me for proof that the Pentagon is hiding
UAP programs I think I I have much
better proof of that well you've
provided amazing evidence you're an
American hero after what you did today
but also a lot of your other work and uh
just just grateful to be able to discuss
this with you and and on the note you
ended on absolutely and on the note you
ended on I was just with um Colonel Carl
Nell head of army former head of army
features command and Diana Pula is a
Catholic you know scholar and they were
both talking about how uh the angel
hierarchies of the Past St Thomas
aquinus amus all that stuff you know
lines up with a lot of the non-human
intelligence experiences that Witnesses
seem to have today and so I wonder how
that lines up with Immaculate
constellation yeah I mean what a name
right I mean um yeah it's amazing I mean
science came out of uh Christianity it
came out of the idea that we needed to
understand God's creation and it was
never you know and you get to a point
where then it starts to kind of
problematize some older ideas but I
think if one of the if one of the
reasons that the government is not
revealing what it knows is because it
worries about the impact on faith I
think that's overstated and um you know
and that we just need to be treated like
grown-ups I mean I think if you're a
person with real Faith you're uh you
know and some non-human intelligence is
telling us that we're wrong I'm not sure
why we would believe them any more than
we would um anybody else well this was
an honor thank you m thank you J it's
pleasure for me how how can people find
you uh shellenberger ATX or the name of
our substack is public and if you have
anything interesting to come out with
contact Michael thank you yeah I will or
me I will protect all sources for sure
absolutely and did an amazing job today
thanks appreciate you